docs/Configuration.adoc, before:

:imagesdir: images
== GitHub integration plugin

=== Triggers common configuration:
- Configure https://wiki.jenkins-ci.org/display/JENKINS/GitHub+Plugin[github-plugin] according to it's documentation.
- Set `GitHub project property` with link to your GitHub repository in Job settings.
image::github-project-property.png[]
- Advanced section contains configuration for configuring `GitHub Repository Provider`. Provider is source of connection to 
GitHub used by Triggers. Trigger may do automatic hooks registration, but it requires `ADMIN` level access for user and OAuth scopes for token based connection. Trigger may not work when it can't get connection to GitHub so you may want to tune it for example with using `PULL` perms for building some upstream project or `PUSH` with ability to set commit status contexts (green/red checkboxes per commit).

=== Pull Requests Trigger
==== Triggering
- Configure https://wiki.jenkins-ci.org/display/JENKINS/Git+Plugin[git-plugin]: add any repo name i.e. 'origin-pull' and set refspec to
`+refs/pull/${GITHUB_PR_NUMBER}/merge:refs/remotes/origin-pull/pull/${GITHUB_PR_NUMBER}/merge` if you want run
build for merged state or '/head' for building exact PR commits, or `$GITHUB_PR_COND_REF` if you want 'head' state
when PR is not mergeable (according to GH state). Set branch specifier to `origin-pull/pull/${GITHUB_PR_NUMBER}/merge`.
This exact link allows to speedup fetch sources.
- Enable "Build GitHub Pull Requests" trigger and configure it.
- If you want do gatekeepering, then add second repository with i.e. origin.
Add `Merge` extension in from Git SCM and configure post build action for push action.

==== Commit/PR statuses
- If you want to set commit status right before job was put to Jenkins queue, enable `Set status before build` checkbox
in trigger configuration (it will have no links because there is no real builds in jenkins, only queue item
that is not a build)
- In `Build` section `Add Build step` called `GitHub PR: set pull request status to "pending"` and enter some message
like `Build #${BUILD_NUMBER} started`
- In `Post-build Actions` add `GitHub PR: set PR status` and configure message to `Build #${BUILD_NUMBER} ended`

==== Available Environment Variables:
- `GITHUB_PR_TRIGGER_SENDER_AUTHOR` - `Kanstantsin Shautsou`
- `GITHUB_PR_TRIGGER_SENDER_EMAIL` - `KostyaSha@users.noreply.github.com`
- `GITHUB_PR_COMMIT_AUTHOR_NAME`
- `GITHUB_PR_COMMIT_AUTHOR_EMAIL`
- `GITHUB_PR_TARGET_BRANCH` - `master`
- `GITHUB_PR_SOURCE_BRANCH` - `KostyaSha-patch-9`
- `GITHUB_PR_AUTHOR_EMAIL` - `KostyaSha@users.noreply.github.com`
- `GITHUB_PR_BODY` -
- `GITHUB_PR_SHORT_DESC` -
- `GITHUB_PR_TITLE` - `Update README.md`
- `GITHUB_PR_URL` - `https://github.com/KostyaSha/test-repo/pull/21`
- `GITHUB_PR_SOURCE_REPO_OWNER` - `KostyaSha`
- `GITHUB_PR_HEAD_SHA` - `8c8e496391619410bded8bb113d4887443ea3b53`
- `GITHUB_PR_COND_REF` - `head`
- `GITHUB_PR_CAUSE_SKIP` - `false`
- `GITHUB_PR_NUMBER` - `21`
- `GITHUB_PR_STATE` - `OPEN`
- `GITHUB_PR_COMMENT_BODY` - `test foo, bar tags please.` When PR was triggered by comment.
- `GITHUB_PR_COMMENT_BODY_MATCH` - `foo, bar` When PR wass triggered by comment and had group match.
- `GITHUB_PR_LABELS` - `label1,label2` Comma-separated list of labels that the PR has. Empty if the PR has no labels.

=== Branch Trigger

==== Triggering
- Configure Git SCM with variables refspec: `refs/heads/${GITHUB_BRANCH_NAME}:refs/remotes/origin/${GITHUB_BRANCH_NAME}`
url `${GITHUB_REPO_GIT_URL}`, branchspec `${GITHUB_BRANCH_NAME}`.

==== Available Environment Variables
===== Specific for branch:
- `GITHUB_BRANCH_NAME` - `KostyaSha-patch-1`
- `GITHUB_BRANCH_SHORT_DESC`
- `GITHUB_BRANCH_TITLE`
- `GITHUB_BRANCH_URL`
- `GITHUB_BRANCH_HEAD_SHA` - `850f36c6e494c5d85c748e61337647f003106bfb`
- `GITHUB_BRANCH_FULL_REF` - `refs/heads/KostyaSha-patch-1`
- `GITHUB_BRANCH_CAUSE_SKIP` - `true` or `false`

===== Specific for repo:
- `GITHUB_REPO_GIT_URL` - `git://github.com/KostyaSha-org/test-branches.git`
- `GITHUB_REPO_SSH_URL` - `git@github.com:KostyaSha-org/test-branches.git`

Commit message:

Doc: Warn about merge conflicts when using PR trigger
Branch specifier `pull/pr#/merge` silently gives commits up to which PR was mergeable. Any commits after a merge conflict are not present in that branch.

docs/Configuration.adoc, after:

:imagesdir: images
== GitHub integration plugin

=== Triggers common configuration:
- Configure https://wiki.jenkins-ci.org/display/JENKINS/GitHub+Plugin[github-plugin] according to it's documentation.
- Set `GitHub project property` with link to your GitHub repository in Job settings.
image::github-project-property.png[]
- Advanced section contains configuration for configuring `GitHub Repository Provider`. Provider is source of connection to 
GitHub used by Triggers. Trigger may do automatic hooks registration, but it requires `ADMIN` level access for user and OAuth scopes for token based connection. Trigger may not work when it can't get connection to GitHub so you may want to tune it for example with using `PULL` perms for building some upstream project or `PUSH` with ability to set commit status contexts (green/red checkboxes per commit).

=== Pull Requests Trigger
==== Triggering
- Configure https://wiki.jenkins-ci.org/display/JENKINS/Git+Plugin[git-plugin]: add any repo name i.e. 'origin-pull' and set refspec to
`+refs/pull/${GITHUB_PR_NUMBER}/merge:refs/remotes/origin-pull/pull/${GITHUB_PR_NUMBER}/merge` if you want run
build for merged state or '/head' for building exact PR commits, or `$GITHUB_PR_COND_REF` if you want 'head' state
when PR is not mergeable (according to GH state). Set branch specifier to `origin-pull/pull/${GITHUB_PR_NUMBER}/merge`.
This exact link allows to speedup fetch sources.
- Enable "Build GitHub Pull Requests" trigger and configure it.
- Under `Trigger Events` add event `Not mergeable` and check `Skip building unmergeable pull requests?`. Because above branch specifier will not give error on unmergeable PRs and silently checkout commits up to which PR was mergeable. Alternatively use [Branch Trigger](#branch-trigger) and merge using git commands.
- If you want do gatekeepering, then add second repository with i.e. origin.
Add `Merge` extension in from Git SCM and configure post build action for push action.

==== Commit/PR statuses
- If you want to set commit status right before job was put to Jenkins queue, enable `Set status before build` checkbox
in trigger configuration (it will have no links because there is no real builds in jenkins, only queue item
that is not a build)
- In `Build` section `Add Build step` called `GitHub PR: set pull request status to "pending"` and enter some message
like `Build #${BUILD_NUMBER} started`
- In `Post-build Actions` add `GitHub PR: set PR status` and configure message to `Build #${BUILD_NUMBER} ended`

==== Available Environment Variables:
- `GITHUB_PR_TRIGGER_SENDER_AUTHOR` - `Kanstantsin Shautsou`
- `GITHUB_PR_TRIGGER_SENDER_EMAIL` - `KostyaSha@users.noreply.github.com`
- `GITHUB_PR_COMMIT_AUTHOR_NAME`
- `GITHUB_PR_COMMIT_AUTHOR_EMAIL`
- `GITHUB_PR_TARGET_BRANCH` - `master`
- `GITHUB_PR_SOURCE_BRANCH` - `KostyaSha-patch-9`
- `GITHUB_PR_AUTHOR_EMAIL` - `KostyaSha@users.noreply.github.com`
- `GITHUB_PR_BODY` -
- `GITHUB_PR_SHORT_DESC` -
- `GITHUB_PR_TITLE` - `Update README.md`
- `GITHUB_PR_URL` - `https://github.com/KostyaSha/test-repo/pull/21`
- `GITHUB_PR_SOURCE_REPO_OWNER` - `KostyaSha`
- `GITHUB_PR_HEAD_SHA` - `8c8e496391619410bded8bb113d4887443ea3b53`
- `GITHUB_PR_COND_REF` - `head`
- `GITHUB_PR_CAUSE_SKIP` - `false`
- `GITHUB_PR_NUMBER` - `21`
- `GITHUB_PR_STATE` - `OPEN`
- `GITHUB_PR_COMMENT_BODY` - `test foo, bar tags please.` When PR was triggered by comment.
- `GITHUB_PR_COMMENT_BODY_MATCH` - `foo, bar` When PR wass triggered by comment and had group match.
- `GITHUB_PR_LABELS` - `label1,label2` Comma-separated list of labels that the PR has. Empty if the PR has no labels.

=== Branch Trigger

==== Triggering
- Configure Git SCM with variables refspec: `refs/heads/${GITHUB_BRANCH_NAME}:refs/remotes/origin/${GITHUB_BRANCH_NAME}`
url `${GITHUB_REPO_GIT_URL}`, branchspec `${GITHUB_BRANCH_NAME}`.

==== Available Environment Variables
===== Specific for branch:
- `GITHUB_BRANCH_NAME` - `KostyaSha-patch-1`
- `GITHUB_BRANCH_SHORT_DESC`
- `GITHUB_BRANCH_TITLE`
- `GITHUB_BRANCH_URL`
- `GITHUB_BRANCH_HEAD_SHA` - `850f36c6e494c5d85c748e61337647f003106bfb`
- `GITHUB_BRANCH_FULL_REF` - `refs/heads/KostyaSha-patch-1`
- `GITHUB_BRANCH_CAUSE_SKIP` - `true` or `false`

===== Specific for repo:
- `GITHUB_REPO_GIT_URL` - `git://github.com/KostyaSha-org/test-branches.git`
- `GITHUB_REPO_SSH_URL` - `git@github.com:KostyaSha-org/test-branches.git`
